doc: revise README for clarity and consistency (#198)
SierraSoftworks/tailscale-udm: README.md

# Tailscale on UniFi OS

> This repo provides the scripts needed to install and run [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com) on your [UniFi Cloud Gateways](https://ui.com/cloud-gateways). It uses [unifi-common](https://github.com/unifi-utilities/unifi-common) to provide a persistent service and Tailscale's networking features.

Author: No, this is factually accurate.

> This repo provides the scripts needed to install and run [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com) on your [UniFi Cloud Gateways](https://ui.com/cloud-gateways). It uses [unifi-common](https://github.com/unifi-utilities/unifi-common) to provide a persistent service and Tailscale's networking features.

Reviewer: I've actually been meaning to update this - it does support integration with `unifi-common` but v3.x shouldn't depend on it at all and I think this can lead to some confusion.

```suggestion
This repo provides the scripts needed to install and run [Tailscale](https://tailscale.com) on your [UniFi Cloud Gateways](https://ui.com/cloud-gateways). It provides a persistent service, automatic updates, and a default configuration which works well on most [UniFi Cloud Gateways](https://ui.com/cloud-gateways) out of the box.
```

Author: Resolved in [df6f3e2](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/commit/df6f3e20993e4cc8a062c677e44d32bf64e10010)

- Any variant of the UniFi Independent Gateway family
- Any UniFi device running UniFi OS 2.x or later and not listed above or below

> [!NOTE]
> These devices are supported only in userspace networking mode, because their kernel does not support the required modules.

- Any variant of the UniFi Next-Gen NVR family
- Any variant of the UniFi Next-Gen Storage family

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This package is **NOT** compatible with these UniFi device variants:

- Any variant of the UniFi Cloud Key Gen 1 (UCK-G1)
- Any variant of the UniFi Security Gateway (USG)
- Any variant of the UniFi Travel Router (UTR)
- Any variant of a UniFi device running BusyBox
- Any variant of a UniFi device running UniFi OS 1.x (Legacy OS w/ Podman)
- Any variant of a UniFi device that has reached end-of-life (EoL) and is not listed above

We expect this to work on most UniFi devices, but if you run into any problems, please [open an issue](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/issues) and include the device you are running on, the UniFi OS version you are running, and the steps you took to install Tailscale, along with any errors you encountered.

> [!WARNING]

> > This package is no longer compatible with UniFi OS 1.x (Legacy OS w/ Podman). If you cannot upgrade to the latest stable version, use the legacy version from the `legacy` branch of this repository. The legacy version is no longer maintained and may not work with the latest Tailscale release.

Reviewer: I think it would be helpful for us to point folks at the last 2.x release (https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/releases/tag/v2.8.0) which still supports this OS version.

```suggestion
> This package is no longer compatible with UniFi OS 1.x (Legacy OS w/ Podman). If you cannot upgrade to the latest stable UniFi OS version, use the [latest v2.x release](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/releases/tag/v2.8.0) from the `legacy` branch of this repository. We no longer maintain support for UniFi OS 1.x.
```

Author: Resolved in [df6f3e2](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/commit/df6f3e20993e4cc8a062c677e44d32bf64e10010)

## Management

### Configuring Tailscale

You can configure Tailscale using the normal `tailscale up` options; it should be on your path after installation.

```sh
tailscale up --advertise-routes=10.0.0.0/24 --advertise-exit-node
```

### Restarting Tailscale

> On UniFi OS, Tailscale is managed using `systemd` and the `tailscaled` service. You can restart it using the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tailscale is managed using `systemd` and the `tailscaled` service (in the same way as any other Linux system). You can restart it using the following command.
```

Author: Resolved in [df6f3e2](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/commit/df6f3e20993e4cc8a062c677e44d32bf64e10010)

### Can I automatically route traffic from machines on my local network to Tailscale endpoints?

Yes! As of January 30, 2025, [two][tailscale-pr10828] [changes][tailscale-pr14452] to Tailscale made this possible. Much credit goes to @tomvoss and @jasonwbarnett, who contributed significant effort to the initial implementation, detailed in [this GitHub discussion][tailnet-routing-discussion]. Before continuing, review Tailscale’s [subnet router documentation][tailscale-subnet-router-docs] and make sure you understand subnet routers independently of UniFi OS.

#### Prerequisites

> [!NOTE]
> You do not need to manually enable `net.ipv4.ip_forward` on your UniFi OS device, as it is enabled by default. If you want to confirm its status, run:

```sh
sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward
```

> [!WARNING]
> Make these changes over a direct network connection to your UniFi OS device, as you may lose access if you misconfigure Tailscale or other network settings.

#### Switch to TUN mode

> The quickest way to switch to TUN mode is to install the latest version of tailscale-unifi, which automatically configures Tailscale to use TUN mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quickest way to switch to TUN mode is to install the latest version of tailscale-unifi, which automatically configures Tailscale to use TUN mode on compatible devices. Keep in mind that devices which only support userspace networking mode cannot be used in this manner.
```

Author: Resolved in [df6f3e2](https://github.com/SierraSoftworks/tailscale-unifi/commit/df6f3e20993e4cc8a062c677e44d32bf64e10010)
